testcases/IMR26/README.md, before:

# IMR26 benchmarks

For reproducibility, this directory contains the benchmarks and testcases shown 
in our IMR26 paper.

> [!NOTE] Note
> When rewriting the code for publication, I discovered some small performance losses due to the implementation. This cleaned up implementation should yield slightly better performances than explained in the paper. In addition, the performances strongly depends on the specifications of your hardware.
> To get a rough idea of the speedup you should obtain on your hardware with regards to mine, you can look at the number of cores on your card and divide it by 3072 (the number of CUDA cores on my RTX4060). For example the RTX6000 used in the paper has roughly 18k cores and (for large point-cloud) you can observe a factor of 5-6 between the timings on both cards. 

In order to be able to use the Python bindings, you can either :

- Add the `build/` directory to your PYTHONPATH : `export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:<path to your build>`
- Install the library system-wide : `sudo make install`

The first method is better if you only intend to test the library.

---

## `uniform2D.cpp`

This testcase was used to get the "Ours" column in table 1.a of our paper

To see what command line options are available, run:
```console 
$ ./testcases/IMR26/uniform2D --help
```

Example for running our 2D alpha-shape algorithm on 1M uniformly sampled points 
using an alpha value of 0.0012 and 10 repetitions.

```console 
$  ./testcases/IMR26/uniform2D -n 1000000 -a 0.0012 -r 5 | column -t
init 2244.595422 ms
RNG  seed      :        42                                        
run  alpha     npoints  ntri     tlbvh      tashape    tcompress  ttot
0    0.001200  1000000  1877465  14.827297  18.336657  0.165415   33.163954
1    0.001200  1000000  1877465  5.223866   17.122290  0.003134   22.346156
2    0.001200  1000000  1877465  5.207062   17.139735  0.002787   22.346797
3    0.001200  1000000  1877465  5.209248   17.152754  0.002740   22.362002
4    0.001200  1000000  1877465  5.218465   17.134976  0.002700   22.353441
```


## `uniform3D.cpp` 

This testcase was used to get the "Ours" column in table 1.b of our paper

To see what command line options are available, run:
```console 
$ ./testcases/IMR26/uniform3D --help
```

Example for running our 3D alpha-shape algorithm on 100k uniformly sampled points 
using an alpha value of 0.022 and 10 repetitions.

```console 
$  ./testcases/IMR26/uniform3D -n 100000 -a 0.022 -r 5 | column -t
init 202.356052 ms
RNG  seed      :        42                                      
run  alpha     npoints  ntri    tlbvh     tashape    tcompress  ttot
0    0.022000  100000   526040  7.069145  27.886839  0.187139   34.955984
1    0.022000  100000   526040  2.174104  25.823812  0.003399   27.997916
2    0.022000  100000   526040  2.161516  25.930698  0.003542   28.092214
3    0.022000  100000   526040  2.161072  26.005754  0.003862   28.166826
4    0.022000  100000   526040  2.157196  25.871720  0.003850   28.028916
```

## `run_on_simulation_meshes.py` 

This script can be used to reproduce the validation testcases of section 7.1 to 7.3.
It is a Python script that will read the meshes from `./input_meshes/`. And 
execute both the 2D-3D testcases using our library's Python API.

First make sure to unzip the dataset:
```console 
unzip IMR26_GPU_AlphaShape_dataset.zip
```

Then run the testcase :
```console 
$  python run_on_simulation_meshes.py 
[2D] Time to mesh './input_meshes/mesh_waterfall/mesh_waterfall_1e-03.bin' (4552 nodes, 8313 triangles) : 0.0008s
[...]
[2D] Time to mesh './input_meshes/mesh_dambreak/mesh_dambreak_1e-03.bin' (4201 nodes, 6771 triangles) : 0.0004s
[...]
[3D] Time to mesh './input_meshes/mesh_wine_glass.bin' (20037 nodes, 79049 tetrahedrons) : 0.0044s
```

Commit message:

Add alpha values used in the paper, #6

testcases/IMR26/README.md, after:

# IMR26 benchmarks

For reproducibility, this directory contains the benchmarks and testcases shown 
in our IMR26 paper.

> [!NOTE] Note
> When rewriting the code for publication, I discovered some small performance losses due to the implementation. This cleaned up implementation should yield slightly better performances than explained in the paper. In addition, the performances strongly depends on the specifications of your hardware.
> To get a rough idea of the speedup you should obtain on your hardware with regards to mine, you can look at the number of cores on your card and divide it by 3072 (the number of CUDA cores on my RTX4060). For example the RTX6000 used in the paper has roughly 18k cores and (for large point-cloud) you can observe a factor of 5-6 between the timings on both cards. 

In order to be able to use the Python bindings, you can either :

- Add the `build/` directory to your PYTHONPATH : `export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:<path to your build>`
- Install the library system-wide : `sudo make install`

The first method is better if you only intend to test the library.

---

## `uniform2D.cpp`

This testcase was used to get the "Ours" column in table 1.a of our paper

To see what command line options are available, run:
```console 
$ ./testcases/IMR26/uniform2D --help
```

Values used in the paper :

| -n       |   -a    |
|----------|---------|
| 10k      | 0.024   |
| 50k      | 0.0084  |
| 100k     | 0.006   |
| 500k     | 0.0018  |
| 1M       | 0.0012  |
| 10M      | 0.00035 |

Example for running our 2D alpha-shape algorithm on 1M uniformly sampled points 
using an alpha value of 0.0012 and 10 repetitions.

```console 
$  ./testcases/IMR26/uniform2D -n 1000000 -a 0.0012 -r 5 | column -t
init 2244.595422 ms
RNG  seed      :        42                                        
run  alpha     npoints  ntri     tlbvh      tashape    tcompress  ttot
0    0.001200  1000000  1877465  14.827297  18.336657  0.165415   33.163954
1    0.001200  1000000  1877465  5.223866   17.122290  0.003134   22.346156
2    0.001200  1000000  1877465  5.207062   17.139735  0.002787   22.346797
3    0.001200  1000000  1877465  5.209248   17.152754  0.002740   22.362002
4    0.001200  1000000  1877465  5.218465   17.134976  0.002700   22.353441
```


## `uniform3D.cpp` 

This testcase was used to get the "Ours" column in table 1.b of our paper

To see what command line options are available, run:
```console 
$ ./testcases/IMR26/uniform3D --help
```

Values used in the paper :

| -n      |   -a    |
|---------|---------|
| 10000   | 0.06    |
| 50000   | 0.036   |
| 100000  | 0.024   |
| 500000  | 0.0144  |
| 1000000 | 0.0108  |

Example for running our 3D alpha-shape algorithm on 100k uniformly sampled points 
using an alpha value of 0.022 and 10 repetitions.

```console 
$  ./testcases/IMR26/uniform3D -n 100000 -a 0.022 -r 5 | column -t
init 202.356052 ms
RNG  seed      :        42                                      
run  alpha     npoints  ntri    tlbvh     tashape    tcompress  ttot
0    0.022000  100000   526040  7.069145  27.886839  0.187139   34.955984
1    0.022000  100000   526040  2.174104  25.823812  0.003399   27.997916
2    0.022000  100000   526040  2.161516  25.930698  0.003542   28.092214
3    0.022000  100000   526040  2.161072  26.005754  0.003862   28.166826
4    0.022000  100000   526040  2.157196  25.871720  0.003850   28.028916
```

## `run_on_simulation_meshes.py` 

This script can be used to reproduce the validation testcases of section 7.1 to 7.3.
It is a Python script that will read the meshes from `./input_meshes/`. And 
execute both the 2D-3D testcases using our library's Python API.

First make sure to unzip the dataset:
```console 
unzip IMR26_GPU_AlphaShape_dataset.zip
```

Then run the testcase :
```console 
$  python run_on_simulation_meshes.py 
[2D] Time to mesh './input_meshes/mesh_waterfall/mesh_waterfall_1e-03.bin' (4552 nodes, 8313 triangles) : 0.0008s
[...]
[2D] Time to mesh './input_meshes/mesh_dambreak/mesh_dambreak_1e-03.bin' (4201 nodes, 6771 triangles) : 0.0004s
[...]
[3D] Time to mesh './input_meshes/mesh_wine_glass.bin' (20037 nodes, 79049 tetrahedrons) : 0.0044s
```
